so guys it ain't deep but it's real and
veganism really is fractious and
fragmentary I am self-critical I do
genuinely examine myself and criticize
myself whenever I try to cooperate or
collaborate with another vegan activist
and it doesn't work out or sometime eat
and start talking to vegan activist and
I conclude from my side I don't want to
work with this person or another's
person as them well why why did I
conclude that when did I decide this is
somebody I don't want to work with
they're someone I want to avoid rather
than someone I want to cooperate with or
sometimes the decision is made on the
other side that person decides they
don't want to talk to me that I want
which is fine we all have to make those
decisions but I think about well why did
that person come to that conclusion was
it for reasons that are really valid or
just we're just happy to being
compatible they're interested in
something I'm not interested in
vice-versa
um you know I mean there were some vegan
activists and their methodology is
completely built around weight loss or
heart attacks or the rates of cancer or
bodybuilding there's the health base
there were other activists and their
methods would alienate me or exclude me
for other reasons and that's fine I mean
okay some extent it's fine to some
extent I can criticize their methods
they can criticize mine and through the
mutual criticism steel sharpens steel
hopefully we all get sharper from this
this interaction hopefully we all you
know examine and learn from the
advantages and disadvantages of the
different methods being used it's fine
but ultimately as I said this person
again again look imagine if you were in
my position you had this experience you
make videos talking about it you have
different people ready to every day you
wrote to me and I made the decision
based on what she told me
based on this interaction with you that
you are someone I never wanted to hear
from again
baddest yen two of my old slogans from
this channel I have to evoke at the
start of this video the first is it
ain't deep but it's real what I present
in this video you may think is quite
shallow in some ways got to tell you
it's deep to me it resonates with it
represents it echoes deep recurring
problems I deal with in the vegan
movement and just as I figure out how to
communicate with people in 21st century
digitized Western society where there
are barriers of language and culture
involved but there's also the new
culture of the internet with its
tremendous potential to connect
activists to one another to connect
people with like-minded interests you
know and the second slogan I was gonna
mention was the statement from my old
blog vegan mind tricks on my blog vegan
mind tricks I commented that veganism is
fractious and fragmentary that you know
we can't talk about it as a unified
movement we really have to recognize how
profoundly divided and divisive veganism
is even from the perspective of people
inside the movement or the people of the
most clearly espoused you know political
and ecological and ethical aspirations
for the future of the movement it is
still genuinely frag refractors
inflammatory it is genuinely difficult
to get vegans to work together and we
reach out across these divisions and you
know try to find people we have common
ground with common interest with try to
make something positive happen so this
is a message one in this correspondence
quote hey I just discovered your YouTube
channel and I love it I'm vegan in
progress and now trying to understand
the problems with domesticated animals
and what to do it requires a ton of
humility to admit our mistakes I just
wanted to ask you about Sam Harris's
criticism I don't understand what a
crass EA is I tried to google it but
found no results can you help me thank
you for what you were doing and
fostering critical thinking PS what are
you holding r2d2 in your videos is the
same microphone question mark best
Delphine now from both the style and the
substance of this email I did assume
that this person speaks English as their
second language or their
third language and in all of my written
communication with the foes I am
actually simplifying my language and
style a bit to reply um thank you I hope
you'll consider joining the patreon
group for one dollar a month there are
free t-shirts involved so this really
marks the moment in my life when this
conversation happened to happen um at
this time I just printed up a stack of
t-shirts really to thank people who
supported the channel I just recently
posted these images letting you guys
know that t-shirts are on the way and I
wanted my reason for doing this reads
that I really do appreciate it I really
do want to give thanks to some people
who've been supporting the channel for
years and so the t-shirts will indeed be
free
it says here they're free aside from
shipping and handling even that's not
accurate I'm not even a church shipping
handling I'm just gonna charge postage
the cost of the postage stamp is the
cost so anyone can check that online if
it takes me five dollars and 25 cents to
send it to you depending on where you
are and the weight of the package that
allows you to pay but nothing else I
know that on the internet some people
interpret the term shipping and handling
really loosely and they actually come up
with a price that makes a profit for
rivers to make the t-shirt involved I
was it back to this conversation I reply
briefly by saying one a crazy is
basically a fancy term for being
weak-willed it's etymology is linked to
its appearance in one sentence by
Aristotle referring to the feeling of
knowing the right thing to do but being
too weak to do it too
yes the white sphere is a microphone
here's the link patreon there's the link
thanks for your time um I'll put an
image on screen here of I don't know a
semi academic article about this concept
of a crazy ax if you google the word
this is exactly the sort of thing you're
gonna find or if you google the world
word Plus Aristotle or + etymology you
can see that the summary I've given here
is indeed a reasonable one Delphine
writes back to me marketing advice never
ever start a conversation by asking for
money it puts people off right away try
to be more genuine even if you don't
mean it period strategy is key
period second the r2d2 microphone thing
was a joke
third I strongly disagree with the
concept of a crazy ax it's not about
weakness it's about picking your battles
period are you perfect question mark
then you can judge period veganism is
caring about every being and thinking
they're all equal and avoiding suffering
there for vegans shouldn't buy clothes
made by underpaid workers or in bad
conditions for example vegans shouldn't
buy clothes from H&M 90% of the vegans
I've told that to got really angry be
careful not to appear morally
self-righteous it doesn't work people
who really know me or really know this
channel people have been longtime fans
will probably already have been laughing
when I first read this out because it is
peculiar that almost every sentence of
this I disagree with I deeply disagree
with her statement try to be more
genuine even if you don't mean it that
to me I'm not mad at her
um it's not something I'd want to debate
or discuss but this shows she's someone
who is really a profoundly different
person me this is someone I don't want
to be friends with this is someone whose
values and whose philosophy of life is
very different from mine no I'm really
honest on YouTube I'm really honest
about my personal life but my politics
about my philosophy and everything else
I'm honest with you about the etymology
and meaning of the term Achrafieh
and you know she doesn't know what I'm
guessing she just hasn't seen that many
videos in my channel but what she says
about veganism and what she says about
factory workers what she says about you
know mass manufacturing of clothing I
actually disagree with every single
point made her sentence by sentence and
I have already made videos discussing
whether it is i've also by the way done
research on the garment industry
especially in Cambodia so it's most
likely this is something I know more
about than she does so there are many
many things she doesn't know that we
have in this group I'm putting back on
screen here again the direct contrast
she says I disagree with the concept of
a KRAS eeeh it's not about weakness
weakness it's about picking your battles
now again I also really dislike and
disagree with her saying are you perfect
question mark than you can judge that
sounds like the position of someone
who's perhaps deeply Christian this
judge not lest he be judged attitude but
before that no this is just false to
claim this about the meaning of the word
of crazzy 'you can look on screen here
yes it really is about weakness and
impetuous 'ti giving in to your impulses
when reason when your rational mind
tells you you ought to do something else
now i've read this in a friendly tone of
voice and whether or not she wrote it in
a friendly voice i am willing to take it
that way
i mean this kind of opens with a rather
abrupt reproach against me
i'm so-called marketing advice and
telling me that i missed the punch line
of her joke that was written in broken
english it's true i did not have the
sense that that was joke but so be it um
but for me really the red flag here as i
said later in this correspondence is
just your response to this look I've
spent time with all sorts people all
over the world when I was in Laos I
spent time with people who had no formal
education rice farmers and the sons and
daughters of rice farmers and very often
it allows the people who did have formal
education the value that formal
education was very very low and even if
you become highly literate and Lotion
there may not be published books about
any of the things really matter in life
when you're only literate in a small
language like that you have access to
very few books very few newspapers
magazines or what have you literacy and
formal education is a very different
significance in languages like lotion
and Cambodian people who grow up with
starkness images if someone like that
wrote to me saying these things about
you know Aristotle's concept of a
crazier that's one thing this is someone
who has a master's degree and a PhD both
from elite English language universities
in England so this is to me a bit of a
red flag so the reply I sent to her at
this juncture was very brief and very
simple and I think she could have looked
back at her own message and understood
why I said this to her at the time I
said simply quote never write to me
again um she then writes back as you see
here on screen quote your
open-mindedness and your kindness are so
high comma how do you handle it alright
whatever the blank I want and you will
have to block my email address to stop
me from writing to you smiley face I
pity the people who give money to you
period
so now again this is someone with a
graduate degree from the University of
Cambridge with another graduate degree
from the London School of Economics this
is someone with an elite education who
was allegedly not capable of googling
something and looking up something that
is very well documented very well
researched and very widely published in
English namely you know Aristotle so I
don't know what's going on here but my
conclusion was simply this isn't
something I want to talk to you so I
reply tell you what you go to Laos do
humanitarian work go to Cambodia to
humanitarian research make 900 videos on
YouTube talking about your experiences
political aspirations
personal life etc see who wants to talk
to you choose whom you'd like to be
friends with out of the people hundreds
or thousands who respond positively or
just with curiosity to your videos your
written articles your shared experiences
and aspirations you'll have your pick
and I likewise must choose even if you
receive as few as five messages a day
from fans or strangers which ones you
reply to is a choice I have no other
source of income people who want to talk
to me pay one dollar per month less than
you pay to drink coffee with a friend
and that's what makes the channel
possible not to mention the free
t-shirts I will repeat myself one last
time never write to me again she replies
are you seeking professional help
question mark my initial message was
genuine and you replied with such
aggression and violence I hope you use
the money to see a therapist and a
doctor you don't know anything about my
life and you don't need to know all the
human
Tirion work i've done i don't brag about
it because I'm not a pretentious and
condescending pieces
I will repeat myself again I will write
if I want to it's not against the law
block me if you can't handle people who
disagree with you so this is an adult
woman with a PhD and this is how she
writes to me I'd point out in the first
paragraph here she says my initial
message was genuine I think it's really
worth asking why were her later messages
not genuine and she's aware in writing
this but this contrast that her initial
message was genuine and her later ones
were not and the second paragraph brings
up one of the great themes of all of my
interactions with white Western
english-speaking people the trap of
people demanding to know don't you know
who I think I am who do you think you
are it's a really sad really
counterproductive a really negative set
of attitudes here coming from someone
who started this correspondence by
saying she's not even vegan yet she's
just started getting into veganism she's
in transition to being a vegan she's
some kind of new vegan she's just
discovered my channel and she's a fan
and she thanked me for helping people
engage in so-called critical thinking
and you see how quickly you get into
this kind of really really negative
attitude all right so I write back to
clarify but again to some extent the
language barrier may be an issue here
but she got a master's degree and a PhD
in English so you know I can't dumb it
down too much quote are you seeking
professional help my initial message was
genuine and you replied with such
aggression of violence no I didn't I
replied by telling you about free
t-shirts you said that you were a fan of
the channel I wrote back telling you
that you could get a free t-shirt I also
told you that you can join my patreon to
talk to me like everyone else reread the
messages I've sent you I never said one
word that was insulting to you and you
on the contrary have said many things
that weren't solving to me please see
the image attached about the meaning of
the word a crazy
you have an MA and a PhD from two very
famous English language universities
please compare what I said about the
word Achrafieh
to what you said and then look at this
article what you wrote to me contained
many red flags that you are simply not
someone I want to talk to your
statements about akrasia really are a
red flag as we say in English especially
given your level of education the
meaning of the word is indeed rooted in
its usage by Aristotle regarding quote
you don't know anything about my life
close quote I know enough to make the
decision that I made I explained to you
precisely how I made this decision I
asked you to sympathize with the fact
that you would be in a similar situation
if you made 900 videos about your life
and your research and your humanitarian
work etc and then you were receiving
messages from just five people per day
who wanted to talk to you I came on the
internet to make friends to make
colleagues and with the hope that we
together could do something positive for
the future of the vegan movement I was
encouraging you both one to think about
the situation from my perspective ie
sympathetically and also to I was
encouraging you to do something similar
yourself good luck so guys it ain't deep
but it's real and veganism really is
fractious and fragmentary I am
self-critical I do genuinely examine
myself and criticize myself whenever I
try to cooperate or collaborate with
another vegan activist and it doesn't
work out or sometime eat and start
talking to vegan activist and I conclude
from my side I don't want to work with
this person or another person as then
well why why did I conclude that when
did I decide this is somebody I don't
want to work with or someone I want to
avoid rather than someone I want to
cooperate with or sometimes the decision
is made on the other side that person
decides they don't want to talk to me
they don't want with me which is fine we
all have to make those decisions but I
think about well why did that person
come to that conclusion was it for
reasons that are really valid or just
we're just happy to be incompatible
they're interested in something I'm not
interested in vice-versa um you know I
mean there were some vegan activist
and their methodology is completely
built around weight loss or heart
attacks or the rates of cancer or body
building there's the health base there
were other activists and their methods
would alienate me or exclude me for
other reasons and that's fine I mean
okay somebody said it's fine to some
extent I can criticize their methods
they can criticize mine and through the
mutual criticism steel sharpens steel
hopefully we all get sharper from this
this interaction hopefully we all you
know examine and learn from the
advantages and disadvantages of the
different methods being used it's fine
I do criticize myself in this matter but
ultimately as a SEVIS person you can
again look imagine if you were in my
position you had this experience you
make videos talking about it you have
different people ready to every day you
wrote to me
and I made the decision based on what
you told me
based on us interact with you that you
are someone I never wanted to hear from
again I think most people would have
just blocked her and never replied and
to some extent in real life if you're
talking to people face-to-face they may
just stand up and walk out of the coffee
shop and never talk to you again as was
mentioned earlier in this video I am the
kind of person who really wants to be
honest on YouTube who really wants to be
real on YouTube because frankly as soon
as we take a step off that path from
nonfiction into fiction I just don't see
the point of the whole exercise I just
wanted to add a sort of footnote here
that there's a whole separate question
of the character of the type of person
who chooses to become vegan in the year
2018 that's indirectly raised by this
video I've discussed it in many other
videos before I discussed it in written
form back when I had a vlog what sort of
character in this cultural context in
this political context makes the
decision to commit to veganism as a
lifestyle as an ecological ethical
ideological cause obviously there are
certain traits that we're encountering
much more often when we try to organize
vegans when we meet other people who
happen to be vegan or when we're
actively seeking out the company
of other vegans and you know as a larger
and larger percentage the population
becomes vegan those stereotypes will
hold to a lesser and lesser extent if
you believe veganism is for everybody
said this many times before then that
means you don't just believe it's for
left-wing people you believe it's really
for everybody including people who have
nothing in common with you and nothing
come with their fellow vegans but to be
sure I think there's a certain kind of
vehemence a certain kind of
steadfastness a certain kind of
inflexibility of character a certain
sense of justice and injustice that you
know maybe especially amongst new
converts vegans that's this woman is
that someone who just recently decided
she wants to a transition to veganism
maybe some of these traits were seeing
here you wouldn't see if by contrast you
were talking to people who had newly
just recently decided to convert to
Buddhism or people who had just recently
decided to join the Republican Party or
the Democrat Party or some other
political cause so guys within the last
few months my vision and my plans for
what I'm doing as a vegan activist have
really changed I've enrolled in a
culinary college to study baking and
pastry and get into more involved with
food services and food production as a
platform for vegan activism that's gonna
change the type of people I meet and the
type of interactions I have many of you
may imagine that if only you could get
out of your current line of work and get
a PhD and get into academia that the
grass would be so much greener on the
other side of the hill I choose this
example to share with you guys for many
different reasons but one of them is
that I've talked to some vegans lately
who really imagined that they could
improve their lives dramatically if they
went from street activism food based
activism health based activism various
forms of activism they or even legal
activism if they could graduate from
that into working within the halls of
academia with what they imagine to be a
higher caliber of person people who are
you know armed with PhDs and what this
interaction shows you look guys
fundamentally people are people there is
a great descriptive equality
two human beings professors are not so
different from their students you know
frankly jail wardens are not so
different from the prisoners police are
not so different from the people upon
whom they have to enforce the law in
many ways as you get more familiar with
human nature you see the ways in which
we're all equal and we all struggle with
the same problems in this case this is a
highly educated person who is obviously
struggling with the same overwhelming
emotions that's stereotypically
teenagers on Twitter and Tumblr wrestle
with and it's another case where we see
just how fractures in fragmentary
veganism can be a bonus Yin